Okay.
So we are now showing the user the current job results page that they are on.
So the next thing that I'd like to start working on is the previous and next buttons to take them to
either the previous job results page or the next job results page.
Now, you might think that it's as simple as taking the current page and subtracting or adding one to
it, but it's not actually that simple because there are some edge cases.
So for example, if they are on the very first page, there is no previous button and there is no previous
page, there is no other job results because we are on the very first page.
There is nowhere we can go back to.
Similarly, if we are on the last page of job results, there is no next button, right?
If we have 100 jobs and the user is on page ten.
So they are seeing jobs 90 through 100.
There is no more jobs to show, so there should be no next page and no next button.
So here's what we're going to do.
We're going to define two computed properties, and that our job will be to figure out the previous
page and the next page.
If that is a valid number, because that page is valid, we are going to return that number.
But if there is no previous page where there is no next page because it logically doesn't make sense,
we're going to return undefined instead.
And then I'm going to show you how to use those computed properties in the next lesson in our template.
So let's begin by defining our computed properties.
The first one I'm going to add is called the previous page, and its job will be to calculate the previous
page based on wherever we currently are.
So the first thing I'm going to do is just begin with the basic logic.
In order to get the previous page, we have to get the current page and subtract one right.
So if we are on page two of the job results, obviously the previous page is going to be page one.
So right here I'll define a constant called previous page.
And in order to reference my current page computed property above, it's as simple as simply doing this
dot current page.
We did the exact same thing in the previous lesson, and I'm going to subtract one from this.
All right.
So the next thing I want to do is I'm going to define another constant called first page, and I'm going
to define it as equal to one.
This is just to provide other readers with some context with what one represents.
It is my first page, and now what I want to do is compare my previous page to my first page.
If my previous page is greater than or equal to one.
In other words, if it is one or higher, then I know that it is valid and thus I should return it.
So I'm going to do a ternary expression here.
So I'm going to compare whether previous page is greater than or equal to my first page.
If it is at least one one or higher, then I know it's a valid previous page and thus I want to return
the previous page in that scenario.
If it is not, then I want to return undefined instead.
Now this could be something more of a specific value, like NULL.
Maybe null is even better in this scenario, but for now I'm just going to stick with undefined.
So this is going to work.
And let me show you how it's going to work in a scenario where we are on page one, if our current page
is going to be one, then our previous page is going to be one minus one, which is zero.
And so we're going to compare the previous page of zero and see, is that greater than or equal to one
that is false.
And thus we're going to return undefined.
So if we are on the first page, the previous page computed property will return undefined.
There is no previous page.
Otherwise, if, for example, our current pages two, then our previous page is going to be one, one
is greater than or equal to one.
So that is valid.
So we want to return one as the previous page.
If our current pages too.
So this scenario should work for all scenarios, including if we're on the first page or if we're on
any other page.
If there is a valid previous page, we're going to give you that number.
Otherwise, we're going to give you undefined, right?
Next, let's wire up the computed property for our next page.
It's going to be a little bit different here, but same logic intrinsically.
So how do I get my next page?
Well, it's going to be the process in reverse.
I want to take my current page value and I want to add one to it.
Now, that doesn't necessarily mean that that is a valid page number, just like zero here is not a
valid page number, but this is our first step.
The next thing I need to do is to figure out what is my max page number?
What is the largest page of this could be right.
If we have 100 jobs, then our max pages, page number ten and we don't want to go above that.
So I'm going to define a constant called Max Page.
And what I'm actually going to do here is I'm going to write some code that I initially wrote and we're
actually going to discover later that this code has a bug in it.
It isn't fully perfect, but for now we're going to stick with it because I do want to show you the
real world and how we can encounter bugs in view and figure them out.
So here was my thought process.
Here I was literally thinking about our actual example.
I thought to myself, Well, I have a certain number of jobs from the back end.
I can get that with this nut jobs.
So in my scenario, that is an array of 100 jobs.
And I thought to myself, if I divide that number by ten, then I'm going to get my max page number
because each page is going to have ten jobs on it.
So for example, if my array has 100 jobs and each page shows ten jobs, then my last page, my max
page is going to be ten.
If I have 110 jobs, then my max page is going to be 11 and so on.
So I said, Let me take this to jobs.
Let me take the length of that array and let me divide that by ten, because every page has ten job
results, and that's going to give me my last page or alternatively, my max page, the greatest number
that I can have in my app.
All right.
So I figured, okay, 100 divided by ten, my max page is ten.
That's correct.
That's exactly what I want for my app.
There is a bug here and we are going to come back to it later.
So right here I'm going to return another ternary expression.
And if my next page is less than or equal to max page, in other words, in this case, if it's either
ten or nine or eight, if it's equal to or less than the greatest possible number I could have, which
is Max Page, than it is a valid page number.
I don't care whether it's one, two, three, four or five or even ten, as long as it's less than or
equal to ten, it's a valid previous page or next page in this example.
So if my next page is less than my max page, I do want to return my next page.
Otherwise, if it is way too high, I want to return undefined.
So for example, if my current page is ten and I have 100 job results, then my next page will evaluate
to 11, my max page will evaluate to ten, and thus I'm going to say, is next page less than or equal
to ten?
False.
11 is not less than or equal to ten.
So because I had zero to false, I'm going to return undefined.
There is no next page and that's exactly what I want for this scenario when we are on the last page
possible for our job results.
All right.
So these are our two computed properties.
And now in the very next lesson, we can actually use them in the view to conditionally render our previous
and next buttons when needed.